Once we put all of these
different tools together to
address the data rate,
either for transmission, or for
retrieval, you end up with
many many choices, right?
And as we saw in the miracle 13
dB demo and the JPEG images,
the signal to noise ratio does
not always tell the truth.
So we need to have some way
of controlling the quality.
So for the wide band audio from what
we saw before, you can deduce from,
you can get certain result in
data rates of about 8-12 kbps.
And for CD quality audio,
you can have anywhere
from 64-256 kbps in one of the newer
AEC codecs even at 128 or
192, you have gone
beyond CD quality what people
call real transparent quality.
[COUGH] Then for still images,
you can get anywhere from 30 to 300,
I think should have been
kilobytes not megabytes.
I have an error here.
Based on what quality you use for
your JPEG compression.
And similarly for about 412 to 1 kbps so
five megabits per second you can
a very decent video quality for
streaming over the internet and
the resultant data size depends on
the content itself to a large extent.
If you have Talking Heads, you can
get much better accomplishing ratio,
as opposed to Federer and
Jokovich playing tennis.
Then, there's lots of motions,
and sometimes motion breaks.
You need to send more ifibs.
On the audio side,
[COUGH] the quality evaluation
tends to be a lot more tricky
than the that we used for speech.
So now you are having, asking more
pertinent questions that relate to
the transparency of the signal.
And for one part you need real
expert listeners who have had
many years of training in
order to evaluate the codex.
And one of the testing paradigms is ABX.
You're told A is original, and B is either
encoded or
B is definitely not B encoded and decoded.
And, you're given a third segment.
Your task is to see if X is very
close to A, or very close to B.
So, sometimes it will be the original,
sometimes it will be the encoded.
And the other one is ABC HR.
HR stands for hidden reference.
A and B are the original and
decoded in random order.
And C is always the original.
So you have to actually Identify
which is the process signal and
then assign a subjective scope.
In this course, are usually 0.5 scale.
[COUGH] And some of the ITU,
International Telecommunications Union,
they're this tester define.
They allow fractional values so
that you cover a much bigger scale.
MUSHRA is multiple stimuli with
hidden reference and anchor.
So in this test, you have a lot more
content that the subjects are looking at.
And you have three or four candidate
codex and you throw in codex for
which we already know the quality
like g.726, g.711, or
for very high quality
codex some of the g.722,
3's that runs at much higher pitching.
And the task of the users,
usually you have
multiple sets of listeners
that listen to this.
And it's almost an art implementing and
running these tests.
So it's a very, very time consuming and
elaborate process,
but they have to go through
all of these when they release
the new version of mp3 codec,
AAC codec, surround sound,
HE-AAC which has the sub-band application.
Well, I didn't talk about that in
the technology, so let's leave that.
So, there is always a need for
a subjective tool to
kind of quickly assess,
especially during
the algorithm development, and
one of the notable ones for this
objective quality measurement is peak.
Perceptual evaluation of audio quality.
And this branch of research is
almost a science by itself because
you take the original signal and you take
the process signal, and you implement
the cyte acoustics just
the way some recordings do.
And you extract various sets of
features and combinations and outcomes,
and MOV, this is an acronym for
Model Output Variables.
Then you put them all together and
come up with a grade,
and we have used this tool
in my work in the past.
And, as a first cut, it's very very good.
It takes us through
the initial experimentation
as we are trying to select a specific
codec, specific data rate, or
a new codec algorithms, and
there's some commercial versions, and
there's an University version
that are free on the internet.